Sweet.
So we have all this Selex pulled for our sequence.
Now, I have some shots that were kind of mixed in here that aren't going to make it into the montage.
They're these ones.
They're more of slow pacing shots.
They will probably have some voiceover under them of showing what I bought some of the items.
But for the purpose of this montage, we're going to go ahead and select these clips, these longer
ones that aren't going to be in the montage.
We're going to move them to the back and we're going to change the color so that we know they're not
part of our montage.
I'm going to right click the space in-between to remove the gaps.
Do the same for our montage clips.
What we did here is whittled down all of these montage shots from five minutes to about 30 seconds.
Now, let's do a quick watch through and see what we have to work with.
And we'll find what moments need to be tightened up, shortened in space, taken out, and what maybe
moments need to be fully.
What clips need to fully be taken out completely or what footage
or what clips need to be fully taken out completely if maybe there's too much repetition.
So let's check it.
OK, cool.
So not too bad.
There's definitely a few moments that I saw with my editing eye that there's a little too much space
kind of hanging around.
And personally, I'm not a huge fan of I love the knife shots and all that, like cutting the tape.
I'm not the biggest fan of these opening the boxes.
It's a little too.
I don't know.
It doesn't have a really cool feel for me.
So rather than deleting these, it might just be the ordering.
And that's really a big thing when it comes to montages.
It's the shot.
That's it's the shots that you choose.
It's the length that you choose to show those shots.
And it's also the ordering that you decide to put those shots in.
So I just whistled when I made the sound shots in.
So there's a lot of stuff going on, a lot of different complexity.
And rather than deleting these shots, I don't like first of all, I'm going to go ahead and make some
space to duplicate our montage clips so that we got it back up right there in our timeline.
And then I'm going to go ahead and change this color.
And I want to take these shots I don't like and I'm going to actually place them together because to
me they throw off the pacing of this montage, but if I reorder, then it might actually work with all
those shots linked up towards the end of the edit, which kind of also makes sense chronologically,
because we're cutting through all the boxes and then opening.
All the boxes simultaneously.
Grab those.
OK, now let's close our gaps here.
These are all the opening back shots.
And let's see what we got.
And OK, cool.
That, to me is actually flowing a lot better, but there's still some shots in here that don't really
need to be in there a little bit too repetitive.
And there's definitely a lot of time we can take out of the montage.
Extra breathing room and space that we don't need.
That's going to bring up the energy, be make it more interesting and overall really improve the edit.
So let's go ahead and do another pass on this.
Now, we're going to be sensing we're going to be listening and watching and feeling where there's a
little bit of extra space that doesn't need to be there.
OK, definitely at this point, right off the bat.
You can see this empty space right here.
Let's go ahead and remove that.
OK.
Remove that.
OK, miscued to the so.
It's too much empty space right here as well, scooched that over.
And what I think I want to try to do here is if we look at the waveforms, we can see the sound come
in.
The action is happening in the sound falls, meaning the action is ending.
I'm going to try and squish these clips closer together so that rather than the action starting ending,
next shot, starting ending, next shot, I want it to kind of get closer to more of a continuous shore.
Sure.
Where I'm whistling a lot today, where instead of starting and ending on a clip, all the clips are
kind of in the middle of their action as we're cutting into them and leaving the clip, cutting out
kind of before the action ends.
This is going to kind of merge everything together.
OK, there's some some extra breathing room at the beginning of these next ones we can take out.
And you can see we're kind of also creating a rhythm here, we're creating our own beat.
So this shot, not a huge fan of the sound.
Honestly, and I don't think we need that.
So we're going to go ahead and just take this one out completely.
OK, cool.
I'm liking that a lot.
I'm just going to cut this sooner before my action is ending.
You see how that seamlessly cuts into the next shot.
Now, previously, he was like this.
And now we took out that extra space.
And it's almost like one shot.
Katie, energy kind of dies there in the clip because the sound drops out for just a few frames.
So we're going to remove that drop out by cutting into this clip a little bit later.
There we go.
So before it was like this and then now.
Same with this one as well.
So we lose the energy here because there's a little bit too much time at the beginning that we don't
need it that one too much time at the near.
Still, we get it kind of goes and stuff, so.
Right, right.
So we see these frames here.
Boom, it stops.
But we're holding this image.
This is an exact time as an editor where these two frames are making a huge difference on the seamlessness
in the flow of our edit.
So we got to ninja our way through this.
There we go.
Now we've went from a five minute edit of raw footage to like a one minute edit to now a 20 second edit.
Let's see what we did on this last pass.
OK, cool, so we don't have a definitive ending yet for this montage, I'm not exactly sure what the
voiceover is going to be saying at this point in the edit.
But the takeaway that I want you to have here is that the editing is in the subtleties.
If you give the same footage to two different editors and they cut an edit in the same time frame,
but they're holding shots for a different amount of time, ordering the shots in a different way, it's
going to be a completely different edit with a completely different feeling given to the viewer.
So as you're going through working on your edits, keep in mind and feel what the edit is giving you.
And pay attention to that gut feeling and that knowing of if a shot is feeling good or if it's not feeling
good and keep reworking it, you know, keep reworking it and keep trying to.
Like I was saying before, carved the granite block into the statue in the artwork.
So now I'm going to continue to go through the rest of this footage and pull the rest of our Selex.